#summary Communication scheme used to comunicate with the client, server, and robot.
#labels Phase-Design,Featured,Robot,Server,Client

= Summary =
	
This document outlines the standards used for communication between the client, server, and robot.  These standards are to be used when implementing various aspects of the overall project.

= Purpose =
	
The purpose of these standards is to keep all aspects of the program on the same page.  This will allow us to keep communication between the different elements of the project solid.  We can then focus more on program logic instead of communication errors.  By following these communication protocols, each integration period should be made easier.

= Roles =

|| *Client* || *Server* || *Robot* ||
|| Display video feed || Image processing || Receive commands ||
|| Display user interface || Receive commands from client || Execute commands ||
|| Send commands to server || Translate commands || Backtracking ||
||  || Send translated commands to robot || Collision Detection ||

= Protocols and Standards =

== Client-Server Communication ==
  * Client sends commands to server.
  * These commands are to strictly adhere to the following format:
`L[+|-]###R[+|-]###`
  Some examples of this regular expression in action are presented below. Remember, when you are looking at the robot from behind (sensor “eyes” pointing away from you), the left wheel is “L” and the right wheel is “R”. L+100 indicates rotating the left wheel forward at 100% speed. R-075 indicates rotating the right wheel backward at 75% speed. Here are some more examples:
|| *Example* || *Description* ||
|| `L+100R+100` || Full speed ahead ||
|| `L+075R+075` || Forward at 75% speed ||
|| `L-035R-035` || Backward at 35% speed ||
|| `L+100R+000` || Turn forward right at full speed (turning left tire forward makes the robot go forward to the right) ||
|| `L-100R-000` || Turn backward left at full speed ||
|| `L+000R+000` || Robot stops moving ||

   As you can see, all commands must follow the 10 character length.
  * If client-to-server connectivity fails, the client will present an error message.
  * Server will acknowledge (ack) receipt of commands from client.
  * If the robot does not acknowledge (nack) or fails to respond to the server, an error is sent to the client.

== Server-Robot Communication ==

  * Server sends commands to robot after translating them into a format the robot can execute.
  * Robot will acknowledge (ack) receipt of commands from server.
  * Robot commands that will be used are as follows:
|| *Function* || *Description* ||
|| `RotateMotor(outputs, pwr, angle)` || Run the specified outputs forward for the specified number of degrees ||
|| `RotateMotor(OUT_A, 75, 45)` || Forward wheel A at 75% speed for 45 degree rotation ||
|| `RotateMotor(OUT_A, -75, 45)` || Backward wheel A at 75% speed for 45 degree rotation ||
|| `RotateMotor(OUT_AB, 100, 360)` || Straight forward at 100% speed for 360 degree rotation ||

=== Notes ===

  Rotation specifies the amount of rotation the wheel will do. 360 is one full rotation of the wheel.