#summary Describes how to use and setup NXC (Not eXactly C) to program the LEGO NXT brick.
#labels Phase-Design,Lego,NXT,NXC

= Purpose =
----
Describe and explain how to use NXC for the LEGO NXT brick.

= Details =
----
[http://bricxcc.sourceforge.net/nbc/ NBC/NXC] is a C-like programming language designed for the Lego robots. It comes with a GUI for Windows called BricxCC.

== Programming the brick ==
This section describes how to write and build software to un on the LEGO NXT brick.

=== Linux ===
The command line version is easy to use under Linux.

  * Download and extract the [http://bricxcc.sourceforge.net/nbc/beta/index.html NBC/NXC compiler] (Linux binaries).
  * Create a link to the binary:
      `sudo ln -s ~/lego/nxt/nbc /usr/bin/nbc`
  * To compile a program, do:
      `nbc -T=NXT -O=file.rxe file.nxc`

Most of this comes from this [http://mtc.epfl.ch/courses/ProblemSolving-2007/nxt.html website].

=== Windows ===
There is a GUI IDE for NXC that is called [http://bricxcc.sourceforge.net/ BricxCC]. Use this to program in NXC and also download the programs to the LEGO NXT brick.

==== Setup BricxCC ====
  * Download the latest release of [http://sourceforge.net/project/showfiles.php?group_id=68600&package_id=67285 BricxCC].
  * Grab both the latest setup and the latest zip that is released after the setup.
  * Then follow the readme that comes with the .zip file.

== USB file transfer ==
Compilation with nbc produces an executable file (.rxe) that needs to be transferred to the brick. This section covers how to transfer the created executable (.rxe) to the LEGO NXT brick.

=== Linux ===
==== talk2nxt Installation ====
  # Download and extract [http://www-verimag.imag.fr/~raymond/edu/nxt/ talk2nxt].
  # Create a link to the binary:
      `sudo ln -s ~/lego/t2n-0.1/t2n /usr/bin/t2n`

==== Uploading files ====
Now you can upload files to the NXT brick:
  `sudo t2n -put file.rxe`

If the file was already present in `My Files>Software files`, the transfer fails.

=== Windows ===
Use [http://bricxcc.sourceforge.net/ BricxCC] to download the built executable (.rxe). (Look at the [http://bricxcc.sourceforge.net/nbc/nxcdoc/NXC_tutorial.pdf NXC Tutorial] for more detailed instructions)